# PyConPL 2019

## About

- Date: 12. - 15. September 2019
- Location: Zawiercie, Poland

## Links

- [Website](https://pl.pycon.org/2019/)

## pytest training

### Information

- Title: "**Introduction to pytest**"
- Length: 3h
- Level: Intermediate

### Short description

The pytest tool presents a rapid and simple way to write tests for your Python code. This training gives an introduction with exercises to some distinguishing features. We'll also examine how to run existing non-pytest test suites and discuss migration strategies. Various plugins which extend pytest's functionality even further will be introduced. We'll finish with discussing topics and questions of participants related to their own test suites and usages.

### Objective

Teaching attendees how to use pytest effectively to test their code.

### Audience

Any Python programmers who'd like to know more about testing. People who never wrote a test before and people who want to switch from another framework to pytest are equally welcome!

Basic Python OOP knowledge (e.g. what a class/instance is) is required.

### Detailed abstract

The pytest tool presents a rapid and simple way to write tests for your Python code. This training gives an introduction with exercises to some distinguishing features. We'll also examine how to run existing non-pytest test suites and discuss migration strategies. Various plugins which extend pytest's functionality even further will be introduced. We'll finish with discussing topics and questions of participants related to their own test suites and usages.

(I don't really have anything more to say than already contained in the short description and planned outline, so I took the freedom to copy-paste)

### Outline

- (30 minutes) pytest feature walkthrough:
  * Automatic test discovery
  * Assertions without boilerplate via the assert statement
  * Configuration and commandline options
  * Marking and skipping tests
  * Data-driven tests via parametrization
  * Exercises
- (60 minutes) pytest fixture mechanism:
  * Setup and teardown via dependency injection
  * Declaring and using function/module/session scoped fixtures
  * Using fixtures from fixture functions
  * Parametrizing fixtures
  * Looking at useful built-in fixtures (managing temporary files, patching, output capturing)
  * Exercises
- (30 minutes): Running existing nose/unittest/trial/Django suites with pytest:
  * Discussing advantages and limitations
  * Strategies for migrating to pytest
  * Using "autouse" fixtures in conjunction with XUnit-based setup/teardown methods
  * Exercises
- (30 minutes): Useful third-party plugins:
  * Coverage integration
  * Property-based testing (automated testcase generation) via Hypothesis
- (30 minutes): Open space for questions:
  * Interactively solving pytest integration problems on real-life projects as time permits
  
### Extra remarks

I'd also be happy to give a shorter (e.g. 1.5h) version if needed. I'll also
give the same workshop at Europython, and I've done so before (2015/2016)

## pytest-qt talk

### Information

- Title: "**Testing Qt GUI applications with pytest**"
- Length: 30min
- Level: Intermediate

### Short description

PySide and PyQt allow development of Qt GUI applications using Python. However,
writing tests using Python's unittest and Qt's test API can be unnecessarily
cumbersome.

The pytest framework coupled with the pytest-qt plugin allows writing tests for
Qt/Python code in a much simpler way. It does so by adding various high-level
functionality useful for testing Qt code.

This talk will give the audience an introduction to pytest, the pytest-qt
plugin and other related plugins.

### Objective

Showing how to test PyQt/PySide GUI applications using pytest.

### Audience

Anyone who uses PyQt/PySide and wants to find out how to best write tests for their projects.

Basic knowledge of Python and asynchronous GUI programming concepts is required. Related Qt concepts (signals/slots) will be explained briefly in the talk.

### Detailed abstract

Both PySide and PyQt allow rapid prototyping and development of Qt GUI applications
using Python. However, the test framework coming with Qt is focused on C++, and
only a subset of its functionality is available in Python. Together with the
"unittest" module in the Python standard library (which exposes a heavyweight,
xUnit-like API), this can make tests unnecessarily cumbersome to write.

The pytest framework coupled with the pytest-qt plugin allows writing tests for
Qt/Python code in a much simpler way. It exposes the QTestLib API, but also adds
various high-level functionality with an API which is much more pythonic.

This talk will give the audience a short introduction to pytest and explain how
to test Python/Qt code using the pytest-qt plugin. It will also take a quick
look at other useful pytest plugins which can be combined with pytest-qt.

Basic knowledge of Python and asynchronous GUI programming concepts is required.
Related Qt concepts will be explained briefly in the talk.

### Outline

Examples of functionality provided by the pytest-qt plugin include:

- Waiting for Qt signals, conditions or callbacks
- Dealing with Qt logging and warning messages
- Automated testing of Qt models (QAbstractItemModel)
- QTestLib API for GUI testing
- Failing tests on exceptions in Qt virtual methods

### Extra remarks

If only one of my proposals are accepted, I'd prefer the workshop to the talk, as I think there's a wider audience for it.

## Author description

Florian Bruhin ("The Compiler") is a long-time contributor and maintainer of
both the pytest framework and various plugins. In 2013, he started the
qutebrowser project, a keyboard-focused web browser based on Python and Qt. In
2015, he discovered pytest - since then, he has given talks and conducted
workshops about pytest at various conferences and companies.
